tools/azure-diagnostics-policy-generator/README.md, before:

# Azure Diagnostics Policy Generator

# DOCUMENTATION FOR AZURE POLICY SCRIPTS

This documentation is meant to provide a guide to the use of the scripts sourced in this repo.  These scripts are all provided as examples to be used as a starting point for assisting in the creation and management of your Azure Diagnostic Policies for your Azure Resources.

## Topics Covered

- [Overview of Create-AzDiagPolicy.PS1](./README.md#overview-of-create-azdiagpolicyps1) 
- [Overview of Trigger-PolicyEvaluation.PS1](./README.md#overview-of-trigger-policyEvaluationps1) 
- [Overview of Trigger-PolicyInitiativeRemediation.PS1](./README.md#overview-of-trigger-policyinitiativeremediationps1)

**UPDATES!**</span> - November 03, 2020

- **REST API Auth Bug Fixed**: Due to some changes introduced to fix a REST Auth issue, a bug was also introduced in that auth logic.  This has been fixed in all scripts in this repo.

## Flow Diagram

![ScriptFlow](./media/ScriptOverview.png)

1. **Create-AzDiagPolicy.PS1**: Used to generate the policy artifacts for Azure Diagnostics or an ARM Template (Policy Initiative) all menu driven or providing parameter options to run silently
1. **Exported Artifacts**: The artifacts that get generated from running the script.
1. **Import Policy / Policy Initiative to Azure**: Import one by one via Azure CLI / PowerShell (policies) or deploy the ARM template export to create all policies in an initiative in seconds!
1. **Trigger-PolicyEvaluation.PS1**: Once imported and assigned to a scope in Azure, use the trigger policy evaluation script to speed up the time it takes to reflect compliance against existing resources
1. **Trigger-PolicyInitiativeRemediation**: Leverage this script to completely remediation a policy initiative at a scope of Subscription or Management Group (creating of individual remediation jobs for each policy in a targeted assigned initiative in minutes!)

## Overview of Create-AzDiagPolicy.ps1

### About the Script (Create-AzDiagPolicy.PS1)

**Create-AzDiagPolicy.ps1** is a script that creates *Azure Custom Policies for Azure resource types that support Azure Diagnostics logs and metrics*.  Policies can be created for both **Event Hub and Log Analytics** sink points with this script.  Currently, this script will only provide the policies for the resource types you **have within** the Azure Subscription that you provide either via the cmdline parameter **-SubscriptionId** or by selecting a subscription from the menu provided.  This script can also be leveraged to create an **Azure Policy Initiative ARM Template**.

- Optionally you can supply a **-tenant** switch to scan your entire Azure AD Tenant

    > **Note**:
    > Please use caution when using this option as it will take quite some time to scan thousands of subscriptions!
- **-ManagementGroup** switch can optionally be leveraged with  **-ManagementGroupID** via parameter or select from a Management Group menu (if ManagementGroup parameter switch is utilized)

- **-ManagementGroupDeployment** switch can be leveraged to ensure the exported ARM template (Policy Initiative) supports Management Group as a scope deployment target

### Reviewing Available Parameters

The following cmdline parameters are available with this script to help customize the experience and remove all prompting during execution.

![Parameters](./media/params.png)

Parameter details are contained within the synopsis of the script for more information. From the PowerShell console type the following to get a full detailed listing of parameters and their use.

```powershell
  get-help .\Create-AzDiagPolicy.ps1 -Parameter * 
```

### Executing the Script (Examples)

Examples of how to use the script can be found by executing the following from the PowerShell console

```powershell
  get-help .\Create-AzDiagPolicy.ps1 -examples 
```

### Exporting Event Hub and Log Analytics Custom Azure Policies

The following parameters will export Event Hub and Log Analytics Policies for Azure Diagnostics to a relative path of **.\PolicyExports** and validate all JSON export content as a last step.

```powershell
  .\Create-AzDiagPolicy.ps1 -ExportEH -ExportLA -ExportDir .\PolicyExports -ValidateJSON -SubscriptionId "<SUBID>"
```

![ScriptLaunch](./media/ScriptLaunch.png)

You are then prompted with a list of resourceTypes to choose from. You can select “22” below to export all policies for all resourceTypes detected or you can simply select the one you care about.  You can also provide that on cmdline via parameter **-ExportAll**.

![Menu ResourceTypes](./media/menu-resourceTypes.png)

Once you've selected your option and pressed enter, the details of the export / creation of Azure Policy files and optional validation is displayed.

![Menu ResourceTypes](./media/results-scanned.png)

The results of this export represent a series of subfolders for each ResourceType and Policy Type you have opted to create.

![Menu ResourceTypes](./media/Export-Files.png)

- azurepolicy.json : This is the full json file needed to create a policy within Azure
- azurepolicy.parameters.json : This file represents the parameters for your policy 
- azurepolicy.rules.json: This file has all the rules that your policy is leveraging to go against Azure for compliance evaluation 

  > **Note**: Each of the above files are required and leveraged to create a custom Azure Policy in Azure via CLI or PowerShell (shown next)

Opening up and reviewing the **azurepolicy.json** artifact will provide you details on the structure and properties of the newly created custom Azure Policy.
![policy view VS Code](./media/policy-view-vscode.png)

#### Importing the Custom Policies into Azure

 Next, the below shows you an example of how you can leverage the created policy artifacts to import directly into Azure Policy.

![Menu ResourceTypes](./media/import-policies.png)

#### Example script snippet below

```powershell
Select-AzSubscription -SubscriptionName <Subscription Name>

$definition = New-AzPolicyDefinition -Name "apply-diagnostic-setting-azsql-loganalytics" `
 -Metadata '{ "category":"Monitoring" }' `
 -DisplayName "[Demo]Apply Diagnostic Settings for Azure SQL to a Log Analytics Workspace" `
 -description "This policy automatically deploys diagnostic settings for Azure SQL to point to a Log Analytics Workspace." `
 -Policy '.\PolicyExports\Apply-Diag-Settings-LA-Microsoft.Sql-servers-databases\azurepolicy.rules.json' `
 -Parameter '.\PolicyExports\Apply-Diag-Settings-LA-Microsoft.Sql-servers-databases\azurepolicy.parameters.json' 

$definition
```

  > **Note**:
  > Pay close attention to the **-Metadata** parameter indicating the proper way to set a category in Azure Policy so it can be searched and sorted once imported.

#### Reviewing Your Imported Policy

Once you've imported your custom policy to the Azure Policy environment, you can located it by going to **Azure Policy / Definitions** and searching on the **DisplayName** you provided in the previous example.
![Azure Policy View 1](./media/view-policy1.png)

Finally - you can select the policy to review the actual contents (JSON) within and how it is organized.
![Azure Policy View 2](./media/view-policy2.png)

From here you can assign this individual policy to a scope (Subscription/Management Group / Resource Group) to enforce it within your environment.

### Event Hub, Storage, and Log Analytics **Policy Initiative** ARM Templates 

This script also provides the option to export a set of custom policies wrapped in a Policy Initiative in an exported ARM template that can be imported into Azure via an ARM deployment to be able to be assigned to a scope.  The benefits of this option are:

1. A single Policy Initiative can be assigned to a scope instead of multiple policies being assigned individually per resourceType

1. A single Policy Initiative will leverage a single Managed Identity upon Policy Initiative assignment (in contrast to a single Managed Identity per policy if assigned per resourceType individually)

1. A Policy Initiative supported by an ARM template deployment can be deployed seamlessly with a single command and management of this initiative is much more straight forward that managing 10's of policies utilizing the same parameters.

#### Creating a Policy Initiative ARM Template for Log Analytics, Azure Storage, or Event Hub

  The below script and parameter combination provides the following:

  - Allowing you to define the display name for the Policy Initiative 
  - Predetermine the templatefile name for the Policy Initiative export
  - Export all resourceTypes without prompting
  - Creates a Log Analytics Policy Initiative
  - Leverages all subs within a Management Group for analysis 
  - Bypasses location for rules evaluation so that a single Log Analytics workspace can be used for all regions for this initiative

  > Note the display name is validated that it is less than 127 chars long if provided.  Script will break to prompt with an error if that value is either exceeded or the value is less than 1 char.  To see ARM limits please go to https://aka.ms/AzureLimits for more information.

##### Creating a ARM Template Policy Initiative (supporting **Subscription** scope deployment)

```powershell
.\Create-AzDiagPolicy.ps1 -ExportAll `
   -ExportLA `
   -ValidateJSON `
   -ExportDir ".\LogPolicies" `
   -ManagementGroup `
   -AllRegions `
   -ExportInitiative `
   -InitiativeDisplayName "Azure Diagnostics Policy Initiative for a Log Analytics Workspace" `
   -TemplateFileName 'ARMTemplateExport'
```

##### Creating a ARM Template Policy Initiative (supporting **Management Group** scope deployment)

``` powershell
.\Create-AzDiagPolicy.ps1 -ManagementGroupDeployment `
   -ExportAll `
   -ExportLA `
   -ValidateJSON `
   -ExportDir ".\LogPolicies" `
   -ManagementGroup `
   -AllRegions `
   -ExportInitiative `
   -InitiativeDisplayName "Azure Diagnostics Policy Initiative for a Log Analytics Workspace" `
   -TemplateFileName 'ARMTemplateExport'
```

#### Deploying the Exported ARM Template to Azure

Once you've successfully exported your ARM Template for your custom policies supporting Azure Diagnostics (Log Analytics or Event Hub sink points), you can simply deploy the ARM template to Azure to import the related policies and policy initiative.

##### Subscription Deployment

```powershell
Select-AzSubscription -Subscription <subscriptionID or Name>
New-AzDeployment -Name "<Deployment Name>"-TemplateFile .\exporttest\EHDemo.json -Location 'South Central US' -Verbose
```

![policy init deploy](./media/DeployInitiative.png)

##### Management Group Deployment

```powershell
Select-AzSubscription -Subscription <subscriptionID or Name>
New-AzManagementGroupDeployment -Name "<Deployment Name>" -ManagementGroupId "<MGID>" -Location 'eastus' -TemplateFile .\MgTemplateExportMG.json -TargetMGID "<MGID>"
```

> **Note**: On occasion, you may need to deploy the Policy Initiative ARM Template a second time due to latency in custom policy import and dependencies upon importing the policy initiative.  If a failure occurs during deployment, please try to redeploy.

> **Additional Note**: Azure Resource Manager has a limit of 4MB ARM Template JSON payload during an ARM deployment.

For very large templates, you could utilize the following to compress your JSON within your ARM template prior to deployment. This will render the JSON unreadable but remove the whitespace and reduce the overall size of the ARM template substantially.

``` powershell
$JSON = $(Get-content .\EHPolicy\PolicyInitExport.json|convertfrom-json|convertto-json -depth 50 -Compress)|Out-File .\compressed.json
```

#### Reviewing Imported Policy Initiative

Go to Policy 🠊 Definitions 🠊 Initiative (definition type) 🠊 Custom (type) and select the new Policy Initiative to review the properties.

![policy init view](./media/EH-PolicyInitiative.png)

#### Removing a Deployed Policy Initiative

Once you have deployed your policy initiative to Azure via the exported ARM template, you may be interested in potentially removing and redeploying (for testing / redeployment with new settings and parameters).  The following script has been provided to allow you to point at an ARM Template used to deploy a Policy Initiative, and remove the initiative and dependent policies from Azure.  

> <span style="color:orange">**Warning**</span> this process is destructive.  This process will also fail to remove resources that are currently assigned, or are also dependent resources in other policy initiatives within Azure.

``` powershell
.\Remove-PolicyInitDeployment.ps1 -subscriptionId '2bb3c706-993b-41e8-9212-3a199105f5f5' -ARMTemplate .\exporttest\ARM-Template-azurepolicyinit.json
```

![policy init removal](./media/InitRemoval.png)

## Overview of Trigger-PolicyEvaluation.ps1

Once you've assigned the policy or policy initiative to a scope (such as to a resource group/subscription/Management Group) you'll need to wait some time for the policy assignment to run an evaluation and return compliance data.  In order to kick off this process, the trigger-policyevaluation.ps1 script can be used to jump start the evaluation in advance of the scheduled check that occurs in the Azure Policy platform.

### Triggering a Policy Evaluation

The Trigger-PolicyEvaluation.PS1 has a few examples that can be viewed by executing the following

```powershell
  get-help .\trigger-PolicyEvaluation.ps1 -examples
```

> Note: This script currently only supports resourcegroup and subscription as scopes to trigger the compliance evaluation against.  

#### Specifying SubscriptionId and ResourceGroup as Scope with an Interval

The below example shows how to specify a specific subscriptionId as scope to trigger evaluation against.  Default looping to determine if the evaluation is complete is 10 seconds.  A value of 25 for interval is used to reduce the frequency of the check.

```powershell
.\Trigger-PolicyEvaluation.ps1 -SubscriptionId "fd2323a9-2324-4d2a-90f6-7e6c2fe03512" -interval 25
```

![policy evaluation](./media/trigger-policy-eval.png)

## Overview of Trigger-PolicyInitiativeRemediation.ps1

Once your compliance evaluation has occurred for your Policy or Policy Initiative, you will likely want to review this compliance against expected outcomes and remediate those resources that are out of compliance. With an Azure Policy, this is pretty straightforward leveraging the ***Start-AzPolicyRemediation*** cmdlet (or via the Azure Portal Policy Remediation option).  However, in the case of a Policy Initiative, you cannot remediate the initiative, you need to remediate each policy contained within the initiative.  This can be somewhat time consuming today via the portal and not easily tied together in automation.  

### Triggering a Remediation for a Policy Initiative

The **Trigger-PolicyInitiativeRemediation.PS1** script can be leveraged to remediate a Policy Initiative that has been assigned to a scope at a Subscription or Management Group.  This script evaluates the assigned Policy Initiative and ensures that all sub policies contained within receive a remediation assignment that will kick off immediately for each policy to attempt to bring the resources to 100% compliance.

#### Example: Trigger remediation at Subscription Scope and provided PolicyAssignmentId (of Policy Initiative) to remediate

  > Note: Use **-force** to bypass prompt to continue.  This operation will require rights to apply assignment so review in advance.

```powershell
.\Trigger-PolicyInitiativeRemediation.ps1 -SubscriptionId jbritt -PolicyAssignmentId "/subscriptions/fd2323a9-2324-4d2a-90f6-7e6c2fe03512/providers/Microsoft.Authorization/policyAssignments/dcf9fe2078dc45799cb34a27"
```

> Note: You can use the subscriptionName or SubscriptionId for your subscriptionId parameter and the script will validate.

![policy init remediation](./media/Policy-init-remediation.png)

### Reviewing Remediation Tasks

Once you have successfully executed the script to remediate the Policy Initiative at your defined scope, go to the Azure Portal / Policy / Remediation to review your initiated remediation tasks and review any issues that need to be remediated manually

![policy init remediation tasks](./media/remediation-tasks.png)
  > Note: This script goes across all policies and all regions to assign remediation.  If this is not the preferred operation to take, you will need to remediate this through the portal or potentially modifying this example script to add the option of region. *Potentially a future update to the script*!

## See also

- [PowerShell Gallery (https://aka.ms/CreateAzDiagPolicies)](https://aka.ms/CreateAzDiagPolicies)
- [Tutorial: Create and manage policies to enforce compliance](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/tutorials/create-and-manage)
- [All my PS Gallery Scripts (https://aka.ms/JimBritt)](https://aka.ms/JimBritt)

Commit message:

REST API Token Aquisition Updates Fix

tools/azure-diagnostics-policy-generator/README.md, after:

# Azure Diagnostics Policy Generator
# DOCUMENTATION FOR AZURE POLICY SCRIPTS

This documentation is meant to provide a guide to the use of the scripts sourced in this repo.  These scripts are all provided as examples to be used as a starting point for assisting in the creation and management of your Azure Diagnostic Policies for your Azure Resources.

## Topics Covered

- [Overview of Create-AzDiagPolicy.PS1](./README.md#overview-of-create-azdiagpolicyps1) 
- [Overview of Trigger-PolicyEvaluation.PS1](./README.md#overview-of-trigger-policyEvaluationps1) 
- [Overview of Trigger-PolicyInitiativeRemediation.PS1](./README.md#overview-of-trigger-policyinitiativeremediationps1)

**UPDATES!**</span> - November 11, 2020

- **Fixed more issues with REST API logic due to updates to Az cmdlets**: Due to some changes introduced with newer Az cmdlets, REST auth logic had to be reworked.  ADO switch is also no longer necessary for ADO.  This has been fixed in all scripts in this repo.

## Flow Diagram

![ScriptFlow](./media/ScriptOverview.png)

1. **Create-AzDiagPolicy.PS1**: Used to generate the policy artifacts for Azure Diagnostics or an ARM Template (Policy Initiative) all menu driven or providing parameter options to run silently
1. **Exported Artifacts**: The artifacts that get generated from running the script.
1. **Import Policy / Policy Initiative to Azure**: Import one by one via Azure CLI / PowerShell (policies) or deploy the ARM template export to create all policies in an initiative in seconds!
1. **Trigger-PolicyEvaluation.PS1**: Once imported and assigned to a scope in Azure, use the trigger policy evaluation script to speed up the time it takes to reflect compliance against existing resources
1. **Trigger-PolicyInitiativeRemediation**: Leverage this script to completely remediation a policy initiative at a scope of Subscription or Management Group (creating of individual remediation jobs for each policy in a targeted assigned initiative in minutes!)

## Overview of Create-AzDiagPolicy.ps1

### About the Script (Create-AzDiagPolicy.PS1)

**Create-AzDiagPolicy.ps1** is a script that creates *Azure Custom Policies for Azure resource types that support Azure Diagnostics logs and metrics*.  Policies can be created for both **Event Hub and Log Analytics** sink points with this script.  Currently, this script will only provide the policies for the resource types you **have within** the Azure Subscription that you provide either via the cmdline parameter **-SubscriptionId** or by selecting a subscription from the menu provided.  This script can also be leveraged to create an **Azure Policy Initiative ARM Template**.

- Optionally you can supply a **-tenant** switch to scan your entire Azure AD Tenant

    > **Note**:
    > Please use caution when using this option as it will take quite some time to scan thousands of subscriptions!
- **-ManagementGroup** switch can optionally be leveraged with  **-ManagementGroupID** via parameter or select from a Management Group menu (if ManagementGroup parameter switch is utilized)

- **-ManagementGroupDeployment** switch can be leveraged to ensure the exported ARM template (Policy Initiative) supports Management Group as a scope deployment target

### Reviewing Available Parameters

The following cmdline parameters are available with this script to help customize the experience and remove all prompting during execution.

![Parameters](./media/params.png)

Parameter details are contained within the synopsis of the script for more information. From the PowerShell console type the following to get a full detailed listing of parameters and their use.

```powershell
  get-help .\Create-AzDiagPolicy.ps1 -Parameter * 
```

### Executing the Script (Examples)

Examples of how to use the script can be found by executing the following from the PowerShell console

```powershell
  get-help .\Create-AzDiagPolicy.ps1 -examples 
```

### Exporting Event Hub and Log Analytics Custom Azure Policies

The following parameters will export Event Hub and Log Analytics Policies for Azure Diagnostics to a relative path of **.\PolicyExports** and validate all JSON export content as a last step.

```powershell
  .\Create-AzDiagPolicy.ps1 -ExportEH -ExportLA -ExportDir .\PolicyExports -ValidateJSON -SubscriptionId "<SUBID>"
```

![ScriptLaunch](./media/ScriptLaunch.png)

You are then prompted with a list of resourceTypes to choose from. You can select “22” below to export all policies for all resourceTypes detected or you can simply select the one you care about.  You can also provide that on cmdline via parameter **-ExportAll**.

![Menu ResourceTypes](./media/menu-resourceTypes.png)

Once you've selected your option and pressed enter, the details of the export / creation of Azure Policy files and optional validation is displayed.

![Menu ResourceTypes](./media/results-scanned.png)

The results of this export represent a series of subfolders for each ResourceType and Policy Type you have opted to create.

![Menu ResourceTypes](./media/Export-Files.png)

- azurepolicy.json : This is the full json file needed to create a policy within Azure
- azurepolicy.parameters.json : This file represents the parameters for your policy 
- azurepolicy.rules.json: This file has all the rules that your policy is leveraging to go against Azure for compliance evaluation 

  > **Note**: Each of the above files are required and leveraged to create a custom Azure Policy in Azure via CLI or PowerShell (shown next)

Opening up and reviewing the **azurepolicy.json** artifact will provide you details on the structure and properties of the newly created custom Azure Policy.
![policy view VS Code](./media/policy-view-vscode.png)

#### Importing the Custom Policies into Azure

 Next, the below shows you an example of how you can leverage the created policy artifacts to import directly into Azure Policy.

![Menu ResourceTypes](./media/import-policies.png)

#### Example script snippet below

```powershell
Select-AzSubscription -SubscriptionName <Subscription Name>

$definition = New-AzPolicyDefinition -Name "apply-diagnostic-setting-azsql-loganalytics" `
 -Metadata '{ "category":"Monitoring" }' `
 -DisplayName "[Demo]Apply Diagnostic Settings for Azure SQL to a Log Analytics Workspace" `
 -description "This policy automatically deploys diagnostic settings for Azure SQL to point to a Log Analytics Workspace." `
 -Policy '.\PolicyExports\Apply-Diag-Settings-LA-Microsoft.Sql-servers-databases\azurepolicy.rules.json' `
 -Parameter '.\PolicyExports\Apply-Diag-Settings-LA-Microsoft.Sql-servers-databases\azurepolicy.parameters.json' 

$definition
```

  > **Note**:
  > Pay close attention to the **-Metadata** parameter indicating the proper way to set a category in Azure Policy so it can be searched and sorted once imported.

#### Reviewing Your Imported Policy

Once you've imported your custom policy to the Azure Policy environment, you can located it by going to **Azure Policy / Definitions** and searching on the **DisplayName** you provided in the previous example.
![Azure Policy View 1](./media/view-policy1.png)

Finally - you can select the policy to review the actual contents (JSON) within and how it is organized.
![Azure Policy View 2](./media/view-policy2.png)

From here you can assign this individual policy to a scope (Subscription/Management Group / Resource Group) to enforce it within your environment.

### Event Hub, Storage, and Log Analytics **Policy Initiative** ARM Templates 

This script also provides the option to export a set of custom policies wrapped in a Policy Initiative in an exported ARM template that can be imported into Azure via an ARM deployment to be able to be assigned to a scope.  The benefits of this option are:

1. A single Policy Initiative can be assigned to a scope instead of multiple policies being assigned individually per resourceType

1. A single Policy Initiative will leverage a single Managed Identity upon Policy Initiative assignment (in contrast to a single Managed Identity per policy if assigned per resourceType individually)

1. A Policy Initiative supported by an ARM template deployment can be deployed seamlessly with a single command and management of this initiative is much more straight forward that managing 10's of policies utilizing the same parameters.

#### Creating a Policy Initiative ARM Template for Log Analytics, Azure Storage, or Event Hub

  The below script and parameter combination provides the following:

  - Allowing you to define the display name for the Policy Initiative 
  - Predetermine the templatefile name for the Policy Initiative export
  - Export all resourceTypes without prompting
  - Creates a Log Analytics Policy Initiative
  - Leverages all subs within a Management Group for analysis 
  - Bypasses location for rules evaluation so that a single Log Analytics workspace can be used for all regions for this initiative

  > Note the display name is validated that it is less than 127 chars long if provided.  Script will break to prompt with an error if that value is either exceeded or the value is less than 1 char.  To see ARM limits please go to https://aka.ms/AzureLimits for more information.

##### Creating a ARM Template Policy Initiative (supporting **Subscription** scope deployment)

```powershell
.\Create-AzDiagPolicy.ps1 -ExportAll `
   -ExportLA `
   -ValidateJSON `
   -ExportDir ".\LogPolicies" `
   -ManagementGroup `
   -AllRegions `
   -ExportInitiative `
   -InitiativeDisplayName "Azure Diagnostics Policy Initiative for a Log Analytics Workspace" `
   -TemplateFileName 'ARMTemplateExport'
```

##### Creating a ARM Template Policy Initiative (supporting **Management Group** scope deployment)

``` powershell
.\Create-AzDiagPolicy.ps1 -ManagementGroupDeployment `
   -ExportAll `
   -ExportLA `
   -ValidateJSON `
   -ExportDir ".\LogPolicies" `
   -ManagementGroup `
   -AllRegions `
   -ExportInitiative `
   -InitiativeDisplayName "Azure Diagnostics Policy Initiative for a Log Analytics Workspace" `
   -TemplateFileName 'ARMTemplateExport'
```

#### Deploying the Exported ARM Template to Azure

Once you've successfully exported your ARM Template for your custom policies supporting Azure Diagnostics (Log Analytics or Event Hub sink points), you can simply deploy the ARM template to Azure to import the related policies and policy initiative.

##### Subscription Deployment

```powershell
Select-AzSubscription -Subscription <subscriptionID or Name>
New-AzDeployment -Name "<Deployment Name>"-TemplateFile .\exporttest\EHDemo.json -Location 'South Central US' -Verbose
```

![policy init deploy](./media/DeployInitiative.png)

##### Management Group Deployment

```powershell
Select-AzSubscription -Subscription <subscriptionID or Name>
New-AzManagementGroupDeployment -Name "<Deployment Name>" -ManagementGroupId "<MGID>" -Location 'eastus' -TemplateFile .\MgTemplateExportMG.json -TargetMGID "<MGID>"
```

> **Note**: On occasion, you may need to deploy the Policy Initiative ARM Template a second time due to latency in custom policy import and dependencies upon importing the policy initiative.  If a failure occurs during deployment, please try to redeploy.

> **Additional Note**: Azure Resource Manager has a limit of 4MB ARM Template JSON payload during an ARM deployment.

For very large templates, you could utilize the following to compress your JSON within your ARM template prior to deployment. This will render the JSON unreadable but remove the whitespace and reduce the overall size of the ARM template substantially.

``` powershell
$JSON = $(Get-content .\EHPolicy\PolicyInitExport.json|convertfrom-json|convertto-json -depth 50 -Compress)|Out-File .\compressed.json
```

#### Reviewing Imported Policy Initiative

Go to Policy 🠊 Definitions 🠊 Initiative (definition type) 🠊 Custom (type) and select the new Policy Initiative to review the properties.

![policy init view](./media/EH-PolicyInitiative.png)

#### Removing a Deployed Policy Initiative

Once you have deployed your policy initiative to Azure via the exported ARM template, you may be interested in potentially removing and redeploying (for testing / redeployment with new settings and parameters).  The following script has been provided to allow you to point at an ARM Template used to deploy a Policy Initiative, and remove the initiative and dependent policies from Azure.  

> <span style="color:orange">**Warning**</span> this process is destructive.  This process will also fail to remove resources that are currently assigned, or are also dependent resources in other policy initiatives within Azure.

``` powershell
.\Remove-PolicyInitDeployment.ps1 -subscriptionId '2bb3c706-993b-41e8-9212-3a199105f5f5' -ARMTemplate .\exporttest\ARM-Template-azurepolicyinit.json
```

![policy init removal](./media/InitRemoval.png)

## Overview of Trigger-PolicyEvaluation.ps1

Once you've assigned the policy or policy initiative to a scope (such as to a resource group/subscription/Management Group) you'll need to wait some time for the policy assignment to run an evaluation and return compliance data.  In order to kick off this process, the trigger-policyevaluation.ps1 script can be used to jump start the evaluation in advance of the scheduled check that occurs in the Azure Policy platform.

### Triggering a Policy Evaluation

The Trigger-PolicyEvaluation.PS1 has a few examples that can be viewed by executing the following

```powershell
  get-help .\trigger-PolicyEvaluation.ps1 -examples
```

> Note: This script currently only supports resourcegroup and subscription as scopes to trigger the compliance evaluation against.  

#### Specifying SubscriptionId and ResourceGroup as Scope with an Interval

The below example shows how to specify a specific subscriptionId as scope to trigger evaluation against.  Default looping to determine if the evaluation is complete is 10 seconds.  A value of 25 for interval is used to reduce the frequency of the check.

```powershell
.\Trigger-PolicyEvaluation.ps1 -SubscriptionId "fd2323a9-2324-4d2a-90f6-7e6c2fe03512" -interval 25
```

![policy evaluation](./media/trigger-policy-eval.png)

## Overview of Trigger-PolicyInitiativeRemediation.ps1

Once your compliance evaluation has occurred for your Policy or Policy Initiative, you will likely want to review this compliance against expected outcomes and remediate those resources that are out of compliance. With an Azure Policy, this is pretty straightforward leveraging the ***Start-AzPolicyRemediation*** cmdlet (or via the Azure Portal Policy Remediation option).  However, in the case of a Policy Initiative, you cannot remediate the initiative, you need to remediate each policy contained within the initiative.  This can be somewhat time consuming today via the portal and not easily tied together in automation.  

### Triggering a Remediation for a Policy Initiative

The **Trigger-PolicyInitiativeRemediation.PS1** script can be leveraged to remediate a Policy Initiative that has been assigned to a scope at a Subscription or Management Group.  This script evaluates the assigned Policy Initiative and ensures that all sub policies contained within receive a remediation assignment that will kick off immediately for each policy to attempt to bring the resources to 100% compliance.

#### Example: Trigger remediation at Subscription Scope and provided PolicyAssignmentId (of Policy Initiative) to remediate

  > Note: Use **-force** to bypass prompt to continue.  This operation will require rights to apply assignment so review in advance.

```powershell
.\Trigger-PolicyInitiativeRemediation.ps1 -SubscriptionId jbritt -PolicyAssignmentId "/subscriptions/fd2323a9-2324-4d2a-90f6-7e6c2fe03512/providers/Microsoft.Authorization/policyAssignments/dcf9fe2078dc45799cb34a27"
```

> Note: You can use the subscriptionName or SubscriptionId for your subscriptionId parameter and the script will validate.

![policy init remediation](./media/Policy-init-remediation.png)

### Reviewing Remediation Tasks

Once you have successfully executed the script to remediate the Policy Initiative at your defined scope, go to the Azure Portal / Policy / Remediation to review your initiated remediation tasks and review any issues that need to be remediated manually

![policy init remediation tasks](./media/remediation-tasks.png)
  > Note: This script goes across all policies and all regions to assign remediation.  If this is not the preferred operation to take, you will need to remediate this through the portal or potentially modifying this example script to add the option of region. *Potentially a future update to the script*!

## See also

- [PowerShell Gallery (https://aka.ms/CreateAzDiagPolicies)](https://aka.ms/CreateAzDiagPolicies)
- [Tutorial: Create and manage policies to enforce compliance](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/tutorials/create-and-manage)
- [All my PS Gallery Scripts (https://aka.ms/JimBritt)](https://aka.ms/JimBritt)
